In this video we're looking at
how to add a legend onto our
print layout.
So to do that we need to go up
into the Add Item tab along the
menu bar, click on that, and
click on where it says Add
Legend.
This is going to give our mouse
the tool to draw it onto our
layout, so don't worry that we
don't have enough space on our
page.
We can just draw it to overlap
the page and then we'll resize
the page later.
So let's draw it on.
And now we can see that QGIS has
automatically populated our
legend with the elements that
are within our map.
So we can see we've got our
biomonitoring points, the roads,
the Ziama protected area, the
land cover types and we also
have elevation and the Esri
standard base map on here as
well.
If you wanted to change your
legend further, what you need to
do is click on it either on the
layout page or within the items
list and then go to item
properties and now here we can
have all the buttons for
changing our legend to get it
how we want.
So in the main properties
section at the top we can change
the title of our legend, so
let's call it Biomonitoring
(Ziama; 2019)
And now we can see this has
changed the legend within our
print layout page.
Now let's take a look at how to
get rid of the items within our
legend that we don't need.
So the elevation and the ESRI
standard basemap, they're not in
our map and so we don't need
them in our legend.
So if we scroll down in item
properties to where it says
Legend items, we can untick this
box that says Auto update and
now we're going to be able to
change the items to keep the
ones we want and get rid of the
ones that we don't need.
So we're going to keep the
biomonitoring points, the roads
Ziama protected area and the
land cover because we can see
them all in our map.
But let's get rid of elevation
and the basemap.
So to do that just click on the
thing you want to get rid of
within the legend items box and
now we can click the red minus
symbol at the bottom here and so
we can see if we take a look in
our legend that's got rid of the
elevation.
So let's do the same for the
ESRI standard base map, just
click on it, click the the red
minus button and now we just
have the elements that we want
within our legend.
So I'm just going to move this
just to get it centred and now
looking in our item properties
we can see we've got lots of
different tabs, lots of
different options for the
properties of our legend.
We're just going to take a look
at the frame tab here.
So let's toggle on frames so
that we can add an outline to
our box and it's automatically
put our box outline as black.
So that's fine, we can keep it
how it is, but you can change
the colour by clicking on the
colour box here and now we've
added a black outline to our
legend so it's nice and clear
and so that's great, we've added
our legend and we've got it how
we want it to look.
The last thing we need to do is
just resize our page to fit the
legend.
So to do that, we're going to go
in layout here on the right hand
side and we'll scroll down to
where it says resize layout to
content.
And then we can just click this
button here where it says resize
layout.
And that's going to change our
page so that our legend fits
inside it.
And that's how to add a legend
onto your print layout in QGIS.